Summary

VIBE HOUSE

Stay. Mix. Repeat.



1. Brand Overview

Welcome to Vibe House—your passport to transforming ordinary trips into extraordinary adventures. Whether you're on a city break, business trip, backpacking adventure, family holiday, or school class trip, your stay with us will be incredible!

Our unique mix of hotel comfort and hostel vibes means you get the best of both worlds. What sets us apart? Our unbeatable central locations, budget-friendly rates, Cleanliness, Safety and awesome amenities that make stay fun. Our spaces are all about having fun, meeting new people, and creating fantastic memories. 

Vibe House is a social co-living / mixed-gender Global standard hosteller brand designed for modern travellers who seek connection, energy, and safety—not just a bed for the night. Vibe House blends hospitality, community, and curated social experiences under one roof.

Vibe House is built for people who travel solo but never want to feel alone.



2. Brand Philosophy

At its core, Vibe House stands for:

Interaction – spaces and programming that naturally bring people together

Mixed-gender co-living – inclusive, respectful, global hostel culture

Safety & Cleanliness – non-negotiable hygiene and behavioural standards

High-Energy Social Evenings – evenings designed, not left to chance

The brand removes the anxiety of:

“What do I do tonight?”

“How do I meet people?”

“Is this place safe and clean?”

At Vibe House, the vibe is built-in.



3. Target Audience

Vibe House is designed for:

Solo travellers (Indian & international)

Young professionals & digital nomads

First-time city visitors

Weekend travellers & party-led explorers

Long-stay guests who value community

Age group: 18–35
Mindset: Social, open, experience-driven, global



4. The Vibe House Experience

a) Stay

Mixed-gender dorms with privacy-first design

Private rooms for guests wanting quieter stays

Clean, hotel-grade mattresses, linen & washrooms

Secure lockers and controlled access

b) Social Life (Core Differentiator)

Guests never have to plan their evening.

Every Vibe House property curates:

Daily evening social hours

Music-led nights (DJ, playlists, live sets)

House parties, games, drinking games, open mics

Community dinners or bar nights

City-specific experiences (Pub Crawl, Café Crawl, Yoga , Runs)

Social interaction is facilitated but not forced.



5. Safety & House Rules (Brand Backbone)

Vibe House balances freedom with structure.

Safety Measures:

CCTV in common areas

Trained staff & night managers

Secure entry & guest verification

Zero-tolerance policy on harassment or misconduct

House Rules:

Clear behaviour and noise policies

Quiet hours for rest and recovery

Cleanliness standards enforced daily

Respect-first, consent-driven environment

This ensures:

Good sleep

Hygienic atmosphere

Comfort for all genders



6. Design & Spaces

Vibe House is designed to make interaction effortless.

Key spaces:

Central social lounge

Music-friendly common area

Bar / café / beverage counter

Co-working corners

Outdoor or rooftop hangout zones

Design language:

Warm lighting

Bold colours

Instagram-friendly corners

Modular furniture for events



7. Cleanliness Standards

Cleanliness is treated like a hotel, not a backpacker dorm.

Daily housekeeping of dorms & washrooms

Weekly deep cleaning

Professional linen management

Hygiene audits & SOPs

This allows Vibe House to appeal to:

First-time hostel users

Female travellers

International guests



8. Brand Promise

At Vibe House, no one feels like a stranger.

Guests arrive alone.
They sleep well.
They meet people effortlessly.
They leave with stories, friends, and memories.



9. One-Line Brand Definition

Vibe House is a social co-living hosteller where safety, music, and community turn every stay into an experience.





1. COLOR PALETTE (CORE IDENTITY)

Primary Colors

Charcoal– grounding, nightlife base

Warm Concrete Grey – urban, neutral

Electric Yellow – energy & highlights

Secondary Accents

Deep Teal / Bottle Green (calming balance)

Off-white / Warm Ivory (cleanliness signal)

Rules

Dorms = calmer palette

Common areas = darker + neon accents





2. LIGHTING PHILOSOPHY

Common Areas

Warm ambient lighting (2700–3000K)

Dimmable lights after 7 pm

Neon signs / LED tubes for accent

Spotlights on walls, not faces (more flattering)

Dorms

Individual reading lights per bed

Motion-sensor night lights (low lux)

No harsh overhead lighting at night

Corridors

Linear LED strips

Wayfinding lighting (soft, directional)



3. SPACE-BY-SPACE DESIGN



Purpose:
Interaction, music, games, pre-party energy

Design Elements

Long communal tables (wood + metal)

Mixed seating: sofas, bar stools, poufs

DJ console / music corner (even if playlist-driven)

Wall art + neon quote:

“Stay. Mix. Repeat.”

“Come alone. Leave with friends.”



B. MUSIC-FRIENDLY COMMON AREA







Built-in speaker niches

Acoustic panels disguised as art

Minimal stage / raised platform

Lockable DJ console storage

Important:
Design for sound containment so dorms stay quiet.



C. DORMS (SLEEP IS SACRED)

Design Rules

Pod-style or semi-enclosed bunks

Curtains or privacy panels mandatory

Personal shelf + charging per bed

Matte finishes, no glossy surfaces

Color Tone

Psychology:
Guests party harder when they know sleep will be good.



D. WASHROOMS (TRUST BUILDER)







Hotel-style mirrors

Individual cubicles

Bright but warm lighting

Clear signage & rules

Materials

Anti-slip tiles

Matte black fittings

Easy-to-clean surfaces only



 CO-WORKING / CHILL CORNERS







Quieter zone

Softer lighting

Plants + wood finishes

USB + power everywhere



F. ROOFTOP / OUTDOOR ZONE (IF AVAILABLE)

String lights

Moveable seating

No permanent bar fixtures

Flexible for events / yoga / chill



4. GRAPHICS, SIGNAGE & BRAND VOICE

Typography

Bold sans-serif (Montserrat / Inter / Poppins)

Large wall typography

Minimal text, strong statements

Signage Tone

Friendly, witty, clear

Examples:

“Respect the vibe.”

“Party smart. Sleep easy.”

“This is a shared space. Act like it.”



5. CLEANLINESS-BY-DESIGN

Design choices that force hygiene:

Wall-mounted fixtures

Closed storage

Dark grout (hides stains)

No fabric in wash areas

Easy mop zones

Clean should feel intentional, not enforced.



Tech BRD

Project: Guest Experience & Operations Automation Platform

Property: 40-Key Hybrid Hostel – Koramangala



1. Guest Interface (Web-Based, Mobile-First)

Objective

Create a no-download, mobile-first web application (PWA) that becomes the central control panel for guests from booking to post-stay. The goal is to reduce front desk dependency, increase add-on revenue, and automate payments.

Access Points

Booking confirmation link (direct & OTA redirect)

WhatsApp automated link

QR code placed in rooms and dorms

Functional Scope

A. Pre-Arrival (During Booking – Upsell Engine)

Guests are presented with an “Enhance Your Stay” section during booking and post-booking.

Add-ons include:

Water Bottle – 100	

Bath Towel - 200

Safe Lock – 150 

Toilet Kit – 150 

Laundry - 150

Early Check-in - 250

Late Checkout (discounted if pre-booked) - 250

System Requirement:

Pre-booked late checkout priced lower than same-day request.

Instant online payment mandatory.

Auto-post to PMS folio.

Objective:
Increase ancillary revenue before arrival and reduce on-property negotiation.



B. Post-Booking (Before Arrival – Web Check-In)

Guests receive automated WhatsApp link to:

Upload ID (KYC integration)

Complete registration details

Pay pending balance ( Only if not paid earlier )

Pre-select add-ons 

Pre-book late checkout

View property guide

View room details, room number, bed number , with lock passcode and locker if bought.

Outcome:
Front desk workload reduced to verification and hospitality instead of paperwork.





C. During Stay (Make your stay comfortable)

Guest dashboard will allow:

Room Request (Services):

Towel – Chargeable 

Blanket – Chargeable 

Toiletries - Chargeable

Locker – Chargeable 

Laundry pickup – Chargeable 

Room cleaning – Free

Washroom Cleaning – Free

Garbage clearance – Free 

Linen change – Free 

Maintenance:

Wifi issues 

Hot water issues

Air conditioning issues 

Other issues ( request for any other maintenance services )

First Aid

Staff assistance

Lost & found

Iron ( Subject to availability )

Hair dryer ( subject to availability)

Umbrella ( Subject to availability)

Luggage storage – 3rd party paid service ( tuckit )

Time & Room Control:

Extend stay

Late checkout

Upgrade dorm to private

Lower bunk upgrade 

System must:

Check live availability via PMS API

Show dynamic pricing

Process instant payment

Auto-confirm booking

Trigger department task

No manual intervention required.



Payment System Requirements

All transactions must:

Support UPI, card, wallet

Be prepaid (no pay-later for small items)

Auto-generate invoice line item

Auto-post to PMS folio

Trigger operational task only after successful payment

Example Flow:
Guest purchases Bath Towel ₹129 →

Payment success confirmation

Housekeeping task created

Auto-assigned to available staff

15-minute SLA timer initiated

Guest notified upon completion

This ensures revenue integrity and service accountability.



2. Staff Task Dashboard

Objective

Digitize and automate all service requests to reduce coordination overhead and improve response times.

Functional Requirements

Real-time task queue by department

Auto room mapping from booking data

Priority tagging (high/medium/low)

SLA timer per task category

Task completion confirmation

Escalation logic if SLA breached

Staff View:

Assigned tasks

Remaining SLA time

Room number

Completion button

Supervisor View:

Pending tasks

SLA performance metrics

Staff productivity tracking

Department bottlenecks

Outcome:
Eliminates verbal coordination and reduces dependency on front desk.



3. Auto Assignment + SLA Tracking Engine

Objective

Ensure automated task routing and service performance monitoring.

Functional Logic

Requests auto-tagged by category (Housekeeping / Maintenance / Front Office)

Auto-assignment based on:

Staff availability

Current task load

Shift timing

SLA rules:

Towels: 15 minutes

Maintenance: 30 minutes

Laundry pickup: 20 minutes

Escalation Flow:
If SLA breached →

Notify supervisor

Flag in dashboard

Record in performance log

Outcome:
Professional service consistency with lean staffing.



4. Data & Analytics Layer

Objective

Provide actionable operational and revenue intelligence.

Revenue Analytics

Daily add-on revenue

Item-wise sales performance

Conversion rate of upsells

Late checkout revenue contribution

Upgrade revenue tracking

Operational Analytics

Average response time per department

SLA compliance %

Peak request timing analysis

Dorm vs Private service patterns

Staff performance scoring

Inventory Control Module

Track for:

Locks

Towels

Toiletry kits

Extra mattresses

Metrics:

Opening stock

Sold

Damaged

Remaining

Auto low-stock alerts

Purpose:
Prevent internal leakage and shrinkage.



5. Upsell & Revenue Optimization Engine

Objective

Maximize per-guest revenue through automation and dynamic pricing.

Features

Dynamic Late Checkout Pricing

If next day occupancy > 80% → increase price

Weekend premium pricing

Same-day late checkout priced higher than pre-booked

Automated Extension Engine

When guest selects extension:

Check live PMS inventory

Apply dynamic rate

Confirm instantly post-payment

Update folio automatically

Dorm Upsell Logic during booking

If dorm occupancy < threshold:

Offer lower bunk upgrade ₹149

Offer private room upgrade at dynamic discount

Scarcity Triggers

Automated notifications:
“Limited late checkout slots remaining”
“Upgrade available at special price”

Outcome:
3–5% incremental revenue on total property revenue through automation.



Reference images - 







Appendix

Images similar to our interiors

 

 









Questions from meeting 9 Feb

Questions from meeting 9 Feb



Will one time OTP valid in the duration of the stay to access rooms and lockers safe

What if :- 

Say the cx invites his friends to crash into his room, giving them the OTP as well.

OTP is compromised via some means and now anyone can barge into a customer's room or steal their luggage.



Edge cases handling, are fully automated doors safe

What if:- 

Emergency like a fire broke out? Will cx feel safe staying inside?

Someone forgets his phone, phone got switched off, internet not working, he will be denied access.

(not applicable if the WC is in the dorm room), someone needs to take a bath or needs to use the WC. We can’t expect them to carry their phones around.

Say for example housekeeper have their handfull, and are not able to use their phone in the meantime

The "Single Point of Failure" Risks

Network Outage Recovery: If the property Wi-Fi fails, how do the "Main Door OTP" and "Room Door OTP" communicate with the central server? Is there a Bluetooth or NFC fallback for the PWA to unlock doors locally?

Hardware Power Failure: In the event of a power cut, do the automated locks default to "Fail-Safe" (unlocked for safety) or "Fail-Secure" (locked for security)? If they are "Fail-Secure," how will guests access the "Mixed-gender dorms" without manual keys?

PWA Session Timeout: If a guest is logged out of the web-app due to inactivity or a cleared browser cache while they are in the shower or common area, what is the "Zero-Phone" verification process for staff to re-authenticate them?

What if our servers crash :- Doesn’t necessarily have to be a prod crash, we had instances where AWS has crashed which is beyond our control.





Cloud to cloud.

Guest Logins?

race conditions.



Booking from 3P, then onboarding on ours

If occupancy is full, then will ezee increase the price?



what ezee supports vs what we need



data handling 



scarcity triggers:

more specifications on the slot structure.

how to decide which user gets the upgrade 



References



https://wakumari.notion.site/FLOWER-TERRACE-HIGASHI-SHINJUKU-3703568d0575438d9cfa2081ab5c6660



Our pleasure!

--------------

■■CHECK-IN CODE■■

18124117

■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 



■Check-in QR/ Pre check-in■

https://www.onestayapp.com/v2/checkin/search?checkin_code=18124117&pin_code=62qszvz6ma&referral=email

■■■■■■■■■■■■■ 

Before check-in, please enter your info in the Pre check-in in the URL.

 The check-in will be smooth and you’ll enter the room early.



【IMPORTANT!!!!!!】

■■1st floor door PIN ■■

①Press ”呼出call “ ONCE

②Press 0817

→OPEN

■■■■■■■■■■■■■



--------------

Check in

June 09, 2025 /04:00 PM

Check out

June 14, 2025 /11:00 AM

--------------



【SELF CHECK IN&OUT】

Please check in & out with a tablet on 1st floor by yourself.

The room key is "4-digit number".  The number will be displayed on the tablet after the check-in procedure.  



■■HOTEL GUIDE■■　

All information is in here.For any questions, please check here first.

https://wakumari.notion.site/FLOWER-TERRACE-HIGASHI-SHINJUKU-3703568d0575438d9cfa2081ab5c6660

■■■■■■■■■■■

↑ If the URL is not working, please check from "pre-checkin URL"→"HOTEL GUIDE"



￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣

【Bed】

You can convert the sofa bed into a bed very easily.

https://wakumari.notion.site/Extra-bed-pillows-blankets-e98ff9832fe04ac6a0eaefbb27f52e75?pvs=4



￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣

【Recommended restaurants】

https://wakumari.notion.site/Recommended-restaurants-1723a77e637c80309456c54471b0b721?pvs=4



￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣￣

This is an apartment-type hotel with no front desk and self-check-in.



We will support you 24 hours a day. If needed, we will go to your room to help.

Please feel free to ask me if you have any other questions.



Have a great trip!



FLOWER TERRACE HIGASHI SHINJUKU team



T2B questions

Questions to be asked for Tech Understanding



Q1. What happens when the on-site technology fails, such as the door lock battery dying or the Wi-Fi connection for the door going down?



Q2. What if the server goes down? Is there a backup or fallback plan for how guests can enter their rooms or access their lockers?

Context: There may be times when the server goes down despite our best efforts to prevent it, or when cloud services like AWS experience outages.



Q3. If a user signs up through a 3rd party website like MMT or Booking.com, how are we supposed to inform them to use our web-app to complete their verification and receive their room passkey? 



Q4. Regarding KYC verification, how are we supposed to conduct it? Will we have a face recognition device to verify guests, or do we need more specific details on the process?



Q5. Do we prefer an SMS-based OTP or an email-based OTP for login (to enable 2FA)? Also, what options are we providing to the guest during sign-up (e.g., Google-based, email-based, etc.)?



Q6. The document mentions "If dorm occupancy < threshold," "If next day occupancy > 80%," and "Weekend premium pricing." How will we decide these prices, and does the PMS provide support for these types of features?



Q7. scarcity triggers:

More specifications on the slot structure.

How to decide which user gets the upgrade?



___________________________________________________________________



Q8. Validate early late CheckIn- CheckOut.

Q9. Which KYC docs.

Q10. Should we use Booking IDs.

Q11. Can you allow partial checkin.

Q12. Type of lockers and lock details needed.

DB proposal

DB Proposal





The blunt conclusion first

👉 Your core system MUST be SQL-first
 👉 You should add NoSQL only as a supporting layer (not the backbone)

If you tried to build Vibe House purely on NoSQL, you’d hit revenue leaks, inventory mismatch, and operational chaos within weeks.

Let me explain why, mapped exactly to your real flows.



Why SQL is non-negotiable for Vibe House

Your business is hospitality + money + inventory + SLAs.
 That combination screams relational integrity.

Below are the exact parts of your system that force SQL.



1. Payments + Folio posting = ACID or disaster

From your doc:

“Auto-post to PMS folio”
 “Trigger operational task only after successful payment”
 “No manual intervention required”

This means:

Payment succeeds


Invoice line item created


PMS folio updated


Task created


SLA timer started


❗ These steps must succeed together or fail together.

That’s textbook SQL transaction territory.

What SQL gives you

Transactions (BEGIN → COMMIT / ROLLBACK)


No orphan payments


No unpaid tasks


No “paid but not delivered” horror stories


If you used NoSQL here

Eventual consistency = race conditions


Duplicate towel deliveries


Missing revenue entries


Nightmares during audits


👉 Payments, folios, invoices, add-ons → SQL only



2. Live availability & upgrades are relational by nature

From your flows:

Extend stay


Upgrade dorm → private


Lower bunk upgrade


Dynamic pricing based on occupancy


PMS API availability checks


This means your data looks like:

Property


Room


Bed


Booking


Guest


Date ranges


Occupancy thresholds


These relationships are deeply interconnected.

SQL excels because

You can lock rows during availability checks


Prevent double booking


Guarantee bed-level accuracy


Calculate occupancy in real time with joins


NoSQL can do this — but with custom logic that’s fragile and expensive.

👉 Inventory, bookings, beds, upgrades → SQL



3. Inventory control & shrinkage prevention

You explicitly mention:

“Prevent internal leakage and shrinkage”

That’s a huge tell.

Inventory needs:

Opening stock


Sold


Damaged


Remaining


Auto low-stock alerts


This is classic ledger-style data.

SQL advantages

Constraints (stock can’t go negative)


Auditable history


Clean reconciliation


NoSQL would make audits painful.

👉 Locks, towels, kits, mattresses → SQL



4. SLA tracking & staff accountability

Your ops engine includes:

SLA timers


Escalations


Staff productivity


Performance logs


That’s structured, historical, query-heavy data.

You’ll ask questions like:

Average SLA by department last 30 days


Who breached most SLAs?


Peak failure windows


SQL wins hard here

Aggregations


Time-series analysis


Reporting


👉 Tasks, SLAs, staff performance → SQL



Where NoSQL DOES make sense for you

Now the important nuance: you should not be SQL-only.

There are parts of Vibe House that benefit massively from NoSQL.



1. Guest interaction & flexible content

Examples from your system:

Property guides


House rules


Event schedules


City experiences


WhatsApp / PWA payloads


These change often and vary by property.

NoSQL fits because

Schema evolves fast


Different properties ≠ identical structure


Easy to version content


👉 Guest-facing content → NoSQL (Document DB)



2. Event & activity logs (non-financial)

You’ll generate tons of:

Button clicks


Page views


Funnel analytics


Upsell impressions


Conversion tracking


You don’t need strict consistency here — you need volume.

👉 Analytics events → NoSQL



3. AI / future personalization layer

You will eventually do:

Personalized upsells


Stay behavior analysis


Dynamic nudges (“Guests like you booked X”)


Those models consume semi-structured data.

👉 Behavioral data, AI features → NoSQL



The architecture I’d recommend (clean & scalable)

Core System (Authoritative Source of Truth)

SQL (PostgreSQL)

Guests


Bookings


Rooms / beds


Payments


Add-ons


Inventory


Tasks


SLAs


Staff


Flexible + High-Volume Layer

NoSQL (MongoDB / DynamoDB)

Property content


Guest guides


Events


Interaction logs


AI signals


Performance Layer

Redis

Session state


Availability caching


SLA countdowns


Rate limiting


This setup matches exactly how serious hospitality tech stacks work.









REAL LIFE EXAMPLES OF HOW SQL WORKS OVER NO-SQL



1️⃣ Payments & Transactions

Scenario

User asks:

“I bought a towel, why hasn’t it arrived?”

What actually happened in the system

Guest clicks Buy Towel


Payment gateway confirms ₹129


Invoice line item created


Task sent to housekeeping


SLA timer starts


Why SQL wins

In SQL, this is ONE transaction:

BEGIN;

INSERT INTO payments (...);
INSERT INTO invoices (...);
INSERT INTO tasks (...);
UPDATE inventory SET stock = stock - 1;

COMMIT;



If any step fails → ROLLBACK
 Result:

No money stuck


No fake task


No inventory mismatch


What goes wrong in NoSQL

Payment doc created


Task creation fails


Inventory not updated


Guest paid, staff never notified


Now support is manually fixing things.

👉 Money + promises = SQL every time



2️⃣ Live Availability & Upgrades

Scenario

User asks:

“Why did my dorm extension fail even though beds were showing available?”

Real flow

Two guests try to extend stay at the same time


Only 1 bed left


Both click “Extend”


Why SQL wins

SQL can lock the bed row:

SELECT * FROM beds
WHERE bed_id = 42
FOR UPDATE;



Only one transaction proceeds.
 The other gets rejected cleanly.

NoSQL problem

Both read “bed available”


Both write booking


Now you have double-booked beds


Front desk panic at 11 PM 😬


👉 Anything involving limited inventory → SQL



3️⃣ Inventory Control (Shrinkage Prevention)

Scenario

User asks:

“Why are we out of towels when system says 10 left?”

Required reality

Opening stock: 50


Sold: 30


Damaged: 5


Remaining: 15


Why SQL wins

You enforce constraints:

CHECK (stock >= 0)



You also maintain an audit trail:

Who sold


When


Which room


NoSQL problem

Stock is just a number in a document


Two writes race


One overwrites the other


Inventory silently wrong


Now shrinkage looks like theft.

👉 Anything countable & auditable → SQL



4️⃣ SLA Tracking & Escalations

Scenario

User asks:

“Why was my towel late and no one responded?”

System expectation

Towel SLA = 15 min


Auto escalation after breach


Supervisor notified


Why SQL wins

SQL easily answers:

SELECT AVG(completion_time)
FROM tasks
WHERE department = 'Housekeeping'
AND date > now() - interval '7 days';



You get:

SLA compliance %


Staff performance


Bottleneck analysis


NoSQL problem

Data exists but fragmented


Hard to aggregate reliably


Analytics becomes slow & expensive


👉 Operational metrics → SQL



5️⃣ Multi-Step Guest Actions (Atomic Flows)

Scenario

User asks:

“I upgraded to a private room but money got deducted and room didn’t change.”

Required atomic flow

Payment success


Old bed released


Private room booked


PMS updated


New invoice generated


Why SQL wins

All steps succeed or none do.

If room booking fails → payment rolls back.

NoSQL problem

Each step is an event


One consumer fails


You reconcile later (if you notice)


Guests don’t care about “eventual consistency”.

👉 Guest trust flows → SQL



6️⃣ Compliance, Audits & Disputes

Scenario

User asks:

“GST invoice for last month, item-wise breakdown.”

Why SQL wins

Clean joins


Deterministic numbers


Reproducible reports


Auditors love SQL-backed systems.

NoSQL problem

Data duplicated


Versions mismatch


Reports don’t match yesterday’s numbers


👉 Finance + compliance → SQL



7️⃣ Reporting & Business Decisions

Scenario

Founder asks:

“Which upsell makes the most money on weekends for dorm guests?”

SQL answer

One query. Done.

NoSQL answer

ETL pipeline


MapReduce / aggregation jobs


Higher cost


Slower insight


👉 Decision-making data → SQL



Technical Proposal: eZee PMS Integration

Technical Proposal: eZee PMS Integration & Feasibility Analysis

Date: February 11, 2026

1. Summary

This document provides a detailed feasibility analysis of integrating the Vibe House Guest Interface (PWA) with eZee Technosys APIs. The goal is to automate guest services, inventory tracking, and revenue optimization as outlined in the Vibe House Concept Note. The analysis highlights where eZee's native capabilities align with our needs and where custom development is required to bridge gaps.



2. Capability Analysis

A. Retail Inventory Management (Physical Goods)

The Requirement: Vibe House plans to sell physical items like water bottles, toilet kits, and locks directly through the PWA. It is critical that the system tracks the exact quantity on hand to prevent users from purchasing items that are out of stock.

eZee PMS Capability: The eZee PMS API is primarily designed for financial tracking. It allows us to post an "Extra Charge" to a guest's folio using the AddExtraCharge endpoint. This ensures that the revenue is recorded correctly in the daily sales report and the guest's final bill.

Limitation: The core PMS API does not track physical stock counts (e.g., it cannot tell you that there are only "5 water bottles left"). While eZee has a POS module (Optimus) that handles this, integrating a full POS solely for a few hostel amenities adds significant complexity and cost. Relying strictly on the PMS would require manual stock checks, leading to potential discrepancies.

Recommendation: Implement a "Decoupled Inventory" system. The Vibe House PWA database should act as the master record for physical stock counts, while the eZee API is used solely to record the financial transaction after a successful sale.

B. Dynamic Pricing (Occupancy-Based Rates)

The Requirement: To maximize revenue, the system needs to automatically increase room rates when the property occupancy exceeds a certain threshold (e.g., >80% occupancy). This logic needs to happen in real-time during the booking process.

eZee PMS Capability: eZee supports rate overrides via its Reservation API. When creating a booking programmatically, the API allows us to submit a specific rate that differs from the standard base rate managed in the PMS. Additionally, the Retrieve Room Information API provides the raw data needed to calculate current occupancy levels.

Limitation: The PMS does not natively perform the calculation for dynamic pricing unless the paid "eZee Mint" revenue management module is active. Without this module, the PMS is passive—it will accept whatever price is sent to it, but it will not automatically suggest a surge price based on demand.

Recommendation: Build a lightweight "Pricing Engine" within the PWA backend. This engine will query the live occupancy from eZee, apply our custom logic (e.g., +20% price), and then send the final calculated rate to eZee during the booking confirmation step.

C. Granular Bed Selection (Upper vs. Lower Bunks)

The Requirement: Guests should be able to pay a premium to select a specific bed preference, such as a "Lower Bunk." This requires the system to distinguish between different beds within the same dorm room and manage their availability separately.

eZee PMS Capability: eZee PMS structures inventory by "Room Type." For a dorm, it sees a single room with multiple "slots" (e.g., a 6-bed dorm has a capacity of 6). It does not natively distinguish between "Bed 1 (Lower)" and "Bed 2 (Upper)" in terms of inventory availability. It treats all slots as identical.

Limitation: Because the PMS cannot distinguish between bed types, it cannot prevent a scenario where two guests book the last "Lower Bunk" simultaneously if we rely only on eZee. The system effectively treats the room as a "bucket" of beds rather than individual units.

Recommendation: Maintain a "Shadow Inventory" in the Vibe House database that maps specific bed numbers (e.g., 101-L, 101-U) to the generic eZee room slots. The PWA will handle the availability check for the specific bed, charge the premium fee via API, and append the bed preference to the booking "Remarks" field for the front desk staff.

D. Service Add-ons (Late Checkout, Laundry)

The Requirement: The system must allow guests to purchase services like "Late Checkout" or "Laundry" via the app. For operational efficiency, these requests need to be limited (e.g., only 5 late checkouts allowed per day) and immediately billed.

eZee PMS Capability: The AddExtraCharge endpoint is highly effective here. It allows us to post charges directly to a reservation ID or Room Number. This integrates seamlessly with the guest's final invoice.

Limitation: Similar to physical inventory, the PMS API does not natively enforce "service caps" (e.g., "max 5 late checkouts"). If 10 guests request it via the API, the PMS will likely accept all 10 charges unless external logic prevents it.

Recommendation: Use the PWA to enforce the operational limits (the "cap"). Once the PWA verifies that a slot is available, it pushes the charge to eZee to finalize the transaction.



3. Relevant API Reference

The following APIs from the eZee Connectivity Portal will be utilized for this project:

Retrieve Room Information (Occupancy Check)

Endpoint: https://live.ipms247.com/pmsinterface/pms_connectivity.php

Purpose: Retrieves the total number of physical rooms and current availability. This is the data source for our "Dynamic Pricing" logic.

Add Extra Charge (Billing & Revenue)

Endpoint: https://live.ipms247.com/index.php/page/service.pos2pms (or equivalent AddExtraCharge request).

Purpose: Posts a financial charge to a specific room or reservation. This is used for all add-ons (bottles, laundry, upgrades) to ensure financial reconciliation.

Reservation API (Booking Creation)

Endpoint: https://live.ipms247.com/booking/reservation_api/listing.php

Purpose: Creates the actual guest reservation. Crucially, this endpoint accepts parameters for "Rate" (allowing our dynamic price) and "Remarks" (allowing our bed preference notes).



4. Conclusion

The eZee PMS API provides a robust foundation for financial transactions and reservation management, but it lacks the granularity required for retail inventory and specific bed selection.

Therefore, a Hybrid Architecture is proposed:

Vibe House PWA: Handles the logic (Inventory counts, Pricing rules, Bed selection).

eZee PMS: Handles the ledger (Recording bookings and charges).

This approach allows Vibe House to deliver the modern, high-touch experience described in the Concept Note without being limited by the legacy constraints of the PMS.



questions to ask to eZeePMS

Questions for eZeePMS 



How to handle bed level booking rather than room level booking?

Does the PMS support early and late checkins/checkouts with extra charges?

Does the PMS have any facility to allow in-house guests to pay for miscellaneous commodities? Do we get an integrated payment system for that? Can we keep a track of inventory?

What if we built a payment system for the same purpose mentioned in 4. Can we keep a track of payments in eZee?

Meeting Notes: 13/2/2026

Meeting Notes: Vibe House Tech 

Dt- 13/2/2026

1. Inventory, Pricing, and Upgrades

Centralized Pricing Management

eZee as Master: Price changes will be managed centrally on eZee, which will act as the master system to push updates to all OTA platforms (MMT, Agoda, etc.) and the direct website via API.


Direct Booking Advantage: The strategy is to offer cheaper prices on the Vibe House direct platform to avoid the ~20% commission charged by OTAs. Currently, ~80% of bookings are expected to come through OTAs initially.


Dynamic Pricing Engine The team discussed building an automated pricing engine with three primary rule categories:

Manager-driven: Manual admin override (e.g., manager sets the price to ₹500).

Competition-based: The system will crawl 3-5 predefined competitor URLs and adjust prices based on rules (e.g., match price, or keep 5% higher/lower).


Event-based: Fixed premium pricing for specific dates with events (e.g., a live singing event on Nov 4th).

Upgrades & Upsells

Room Upgrades: Private room upgrades can be shown to everyone online.


Bunk Upgrades (Upper to Lower): To avoid complex inventory conflicts, lower/upper bunk upgrades will not have system-generated notifications or be handled via the pre-check-in app. These will be handled strictly on-site upon guest request, accommodating physical limitations or preferences based on live availability.


2. Check-in Process & KYC

Pre-Arrival vs. On-Site Verification

Pre-Check-in: Guests will use a combination of their Booking ID (provided by eZee for both direct and OTA bookings) and Name to access the pre-check-in portal.

On-Site Verification is Mandatory: Unlike fully remote Airbnb check-ins, the team agreed that a physical presence check (photo/camera verification by a staff member or kiosk) is required on-site to match the ID with the guest for legal and safety reasons.


Supported Documents: Aadhaar and Passports are accepted. PAN cards are strictly not accepted for check-in.


Age Restriction: Only individuals 18+ are allowed to book/stay in dorms. Foreigners are allowed to complete their passport verification on-site.


Group Bookings & Partial Check-ins

If one person books for four people, all four must complete KYC.


Partial Check-in Logic: If one guest from a group arrives early, they can check in and get access. However, an SLA (e.g., 5 hours, or a deadline like 8 PM) will be triggered for the remaining guests.


If the remaining guests do not check in within the SLA, a warning is sent, and they risk being marked as a "no-show," allowing the hostel to resell the beds. Exception handling will be required for genuine transit delays (e.g., delayed trains).


3. Access Management & Digital Locks (MyGate)

Lock Functionality

Passcode Only: Guests will access rooms using a digital keypad passcode. The team ruled out using Bluetooth or an app to unlock doors, deeming it an "overkill".

Group Passcodes: A group checking into the same room will share one passcode. If a group is split across multiple rooms, they will receive lock-specific passcodes.


Hardware Concerns & Fallbacks

Battery Drain Issue: Rahul flagged that digital locks (specifically seen at Zostel) drain batteries quickly due to the high frequency of 6 dorm-mates coming in and out. This needs to be investigated with MyGate.


System Outage Fallback: If the cloud/AWS goes down, the passcode stored locally on the lock will still work. If the lock's battery dies completely, staff must have a physical manual/master key on-site.


4. Guest Communication & Authentication

Authentication: The system will use Email OTPs for user logins because it is highly cost-effective (free up to a certain limit, e.g., 1500 emails/day), whereas SMS incurs higher costs.


Pre-Registration Comms: Before a guest registers on the Vibe House platform, automated template messages will be sent via OTA platform messaging (MMT/Agoda chat) to instruct them to complete web check-in. Once registered, direct email will be used.


5. Timelines & Project Planning

Current Estimates: Tech development was initially quoted at 3-4 months.

Target: The goal is to aggressively push and complete the MVP in under 2 months.

Project Plan Branching: The project needs to be broken down into specific tracks (tech, logo, branding, design, sourcing) to establish clear deadlines and accountability.




Action Items & Next Steps

Monday @ 3 PM: Shreyas, Nisha and Mohit to visit the MyGate office in Bangalore and the rest of the Tech team to visit their office in Raipur.

Tuesday Morning: Meeting with Nisha to build the master Project Plan, branching out tech scope, design, branding, etc., with strict deadlines.

Next Thursday: Dedicated meeting to finalize the technical development timeline.

Pricing Rules: Mohit and Nisha to finalize the exact rules/algorithms for the dynamic pricing engine.



Open Questions for External Partners

Questions for eZee Team:

How do we create a "bed-level" entity in eZee (since it typically handles room-level bookings) for dorm assignments?

Does eZee natively support charging for early check-in / late check-out?


Does eZee natively support billing for physical commodities/add-ons (e.g., towels), or must this be built entirely outside eZee?


Note: If eZee does not support these seamlessly, the team may evaluate alternative PMS systems like Pro-logics.

Questions for MyGate Team (Monday Meeting):

How do you handle the high battery drain on digital locks in a high-traffic dorm setting? Is it a hardware issue or an app-integration issue?

How are passcodes generated and pushed to the locks? Do we generate it via our tech, or does MyGate generate it?

How has Zostel (who also uses MyGate) mapped bed-level bookings and KYC edge cases in their integration? 



Vibe House: eZee PMS API Requirements Document

Vibe House: eZee PMS API Requirements Document

Project: Custom PWA (Guest Interface) & Automation Engine 

Objective: To integrate Vibe House's custom middleware with eZee PMS to automate web check-ins, add-on sales, and dynamic inventory management.

Please provide the corresponding API Endpoints, HTTP Methods, and sample JSON payloads (Request/Response) for the following functional requirements:

1. Reservation & Guest Data (Web Check-in Flow)

Context: Guests will use a custom web app to complete pre-arrival registration, document uploads, and web check-in . 

Required APIs:

Fetch Booking Details: Retrieve a reservation using the Booking ID or OTA reference number, returning guest name, dates, room category, and assigned bed/room.

Update Guest Profile / KYC: Push guest details (email, phone, address, and ID verification status) back into the eZee reservation record.

Update Booking Status: Change the reservation status from "Reserved" to "Checked-In" once the guest completes the digital check-in process.

2. Unit-Level (Room or Bed) Inventory & Availability

Context: Vibe House operates a hybrid model with both private rooms and dormitories (1 room, n beds). The custom engine will dynamically handle stay extensions and upgrades . Required APIs:

Live Availability Sync: Fetch real-time availability of rooms and individual beds to support the dynamic pricing engine and automated extension requests.

Bed Assignment/Modification: Retrieve the specific bed number assigned to a guest within a dorm, and update this assignment if the guest purchases a "Lower Bunk Upgrade".

3. Commodities, Add-ons & Financial Folio (The Billing Flow)

Context: Guests will purchase physical items (water bottles, towels) and services (early check-in, late checkout) via the custom PWA. Payment is processed externally by Vibe House, but the transactions must be synced to the eZee invoice . 

Required APIs:

Post Extra Charge (Services): Add a financial line item to the guest's folio for time-based services like Early Check-in or Late Checkout.

Inventory: CRUD operations for an inventory item.

Post Commodity Transaction: Push a completed order for physical inventory (e.g., Safe Lock, Toilet Kit) to eZee. This API must record the item on the invoice and mark it as 'Paid' to reflect that the payment gateway transaction was already successful.

Fetch Catalog / Master Data: Retrieve the list of active commodities/services and their base prices from eZee to ensure the PWA displays accurate items .

4. Group Bookings & Partial Check-ins

Context: One primary user may book multiple beds for a group. Individual group members may arrive at different times. 

Required APIs:

Group Folio Management: Fetch the linked reservations for a group booking to allow the primary booker to settle any pending balances for the entire group.

Split Check-in: Ability to mark specific beds/guests within a single group booking ID as "Checked-In" while leaving others as pending.



To the eZee Integration Team: For each of the above requirements, kindly outline:

Endpoint URL

Required Headers (Authentication)

Mandatory Request Parameters

Sample Success Response (JSON/XML)

Any known rate limits or constraints



CRUD Ops

//Listing - Unit level - Room or Bed

//Reservations/Bookings with payments

Single/Group

//Checkins/outs

Single/ Group

Partial

//Services

Single/G

listing

Booking with payments





eZee PMS API Requirements Document

Vibe House: eZee PMS API Requirements Document

Project: Custom PWA (Guest Interface) & Automation Engine 

Objective: To integrate Vibe House's custom middleware with eZee PMS to automate web check-ins, add-on sales, and dynamic inventory management.

Please provide the corresponding API Endpoints, HTTP Methods, and sample JSON payloads (Request/Response) for the following functional requirements:

1. Listing & Availability: Unit-Level (Room or Bed)

Context: Vibe House operates a hybrid model with both private rooms and dormitories (1 room, n beds). The custom engine will dynamically handle stay extensions, availability syncs, and bed-level upgrades. Required APIs (CRUD Operations):

Create/Update Unit: APIs to add or modify individual physical beds or rooms within the PMS.

Read (Live Availability Sync): Fetch real-time availability of specific rooms and individual beds to support the dynamic pricing engine and automated extension requests.

Update (Bed Assignment/Modification): Retrieve the specific bed number assigned to a guest within a dorm, and update this assignment (e.g., if the guest purchases a "Lower Bunk Upgrade").

Delete/Deactivate: Temporarily block or deactivate a bed/room for maintenance.

2. Reservations & Bookings (with Payments)

Context: The middleware will handle direct bookings and modify existing OTA bookings, along with syncing payment statuses to the financial folio. Required APIs (CRUD Operations):

Create Booking (Single/Group): Push a new reservation into eZee for either a single bed/room or a group of beds, along with the captured payment details.

Read Booking Details (Single/Group): Retrieve a reservation using the Booking ID or OTA reference number, returning guest names, dates, room category, assigned bed/room, and linked group IDs.

Update Booking & Profile: Push guest KYC details (email, phone, address, and ID verification status) back into the reservation record. Update stay dates for automated extensions.

Update Payment Status: API to record a payment gateway transaction as 'Paid' against the specific reservation's folio (Single or Group folio).

Delete/Cancel Booking: Cancel a reservation and update the available inventory.

3. Check-ins & Check-outs

Context: Guests will use the custom web app to complete pre-arrival registration and check themselves in/out. Group members may arrive at different times. Required APIs:

Single Check-in / Check-out: Change a standard reservation status from "Reserved" to "Checked-In" or "Checked-Out".

Group Check-in / Check-out: Bulk update the status for an entire linked group booking simultaneously.

Partial (Split) Check-in: Ability to mark specific beds/guests within a single group booking ID as "Checked-In" while leaving the remaining group members' statuses as pending.

4. Services, Commodities & Inventory

Context: Guests will purchase physical items (water bottles, towels) and services (early check-in, late checkout) via the custom PWA. Payment is processed externally by Vibe House, but the transactions must be synced. Required APIs (CRUD Operations):

Read (Service/Commodity Listing): Fetch Catalog / Master Data to retrieve the list of active commodities and services with their base prices from eZee.

Create/Book Service with Payment (Single/Group): * Post Extra Charge (Services): Add a financial line item to the folio for time-based services like Early Check-in.

Post Commodity Transaction: Push a completed order for physical inventory to eZee, recording the item on the invoice and marking it as 'Paid'. Must specify if the charge applies to a Single folio or is split/added to a Group folio.

CRUD Inventory: Operations to create new sellable inventory items, read current stock levels, update stock counts (deduct upon purchase), and delete/retire items.



To the eZee Integration Team: For each of the above requirements, kindly outline:

Endpoint URL

Required Headers (Authentication)

Mandatory Request Parameters

Sample Success & Error Responses (JSON/XML)

Any known rate limits or constraints



Add Room shift (ops and API both)



Questions for MyGate Team

Questions for MyGate Team 

Technical & Operational Questions



//First we let their team explain how myGate lock and lockers tech works

Then we ask questions if things are not clear.



Passcode Management & APIs

How are passcodes generated and pushed to the locks? Do we generate them via our custom tech stack, or does MyGate system handle the generation and sync?

If four customers are staying in a shared dorm room, does everyone receive the same room passcode, or can they be issued individual, unique passcodes?    unique

How is the lifecycle of a guest passcode managed? Can a passcode be programmed via API to auto-expire precisely at the designated check-out time?   YES

API Capabilities & Monitoring

What APIs do you provide to interact with the lock system, and are there any rate limitations or constraints we should be aware of?

Does the API provide real-time entry logs so our system knows exactly when a guest first entered the room (to track actual check-ins vs. ghost check-ins)?

Does the system provide proactive low-battery alerts via webhook/API so our staff dashboard can auto-generate a maintenance task before a lock dies?

Fail-safes & Staff Access

How do you tackle emergency situations, service failures, Wi-Fi/Bluetooth disconnections, or other internal system outages?

Can there be a primary or master keycode for staff? Regarding its characteristics:

Is it the same for all rooms or unique per room?

Can it be configured to change automatically after a certain period for security purposes?

Hardware & Connectivity

How do you handle the high battery drain observed on digital locks in a high-traffic dorm setting? Is this typically a hardware limitation or an app-integration issue?

What are the pros and cons of Bluetooth-enabled versus Wi-Fi-enabled locks in a commercial hostel environment?

Do the locks have a physical manual key override in the event of total battery depletion or catastrophic hardware failure?



Questions about Zostel's Implementation

Integration & Edge Cases

How has Zostel (who also uses MyGate) mapped bed-level bookings and KYC edge cases within their integration?

How do they handle access for partial check-ins (e.g., when one person from a group booking arrives early, but the others haven't completed KYC)?

In the case of a group booking, if a passcode is issued to the first arriving guest, how is access managed if the remaining guests fail to meet their check-in SLA? 

Hardware & Access Management

Which specific lock system (Bluetooth or Wi-Fi) do they currently use?

How do they manage room passcodes at both the customer level and the staff level?





MyGate : API requirements doc

MyGate : API requirements doc



Project: Custom PWA (Guest Interface) & Automation Engine 

Objective: To integrate Vibe House's middleware with MyGate's smart lock ecosystem to completely automate property management, manager assignments, and guest access (PIN generation/revocation).

Please provide the corresponding API Endpoints, HTTP Methods, and sample JSON payloads (Request/Response) for the following functional requirements:

1. Authentication & Session Management (Manager/Admin Login)

Context: Our backend server needs to authenticate automatically as a "Partner Admin" , and we need to facilitate manager logins. Required APIs:

Admin/Manager Login: Endpoint to authenticate a manager or Partner Admin programmatically (e.g., bypassing the manual mobile OTP login if possible, via API Key or OAuth2 token for server-to-server calls) .

Session Management: APIs to refresh tokens and maintain an active session.

2. Property & Room Management (CRUD Properties/Hotels)

Context: We need to programmatically mirror our eZee PMS property and room structures within the MyGate system. Required APIs:

Create Property/Room: Endpoints to add a new building/property and map specific rooms to it .

Read Properties/Rooms: Fetch the list of all properties and their associated rooms, including the serial numbers and setup status of the connected locks .

Update Property/Room: Modify property details or room names.

Delete Property/Room: Remove a room or property from the system.

3. Manager Assignment & App Access (CRUD Managers)

Context: We need to provision, update, and revoke access for our operations staff and building managers dynamically. Required APIs:

Create Manager/App Access: Add a new manager to the system and grant them "App Access" for specific properties/rooms . This includes toggling the "Make authorised admin" parameter.

Read Managers: Retrieve a list of all assigned building managers and their current access levels .

Update Manager: Modify a manager's access scope (e.g., assigning them to a new property or changing their admin privileges).

Delete/Revoke Manager Access: Instantly remove a manager's access upon shift end or termination.

4. Access Control (CRUD PIN Codes)

Context: When a guest completes web check-in, our system must instantly generate a lock PIN. Note regarding modifications: We do not require an API to update, prolong, or extend an active PIN. For scenarios like early check-ins or late checkouts, our system will handle this by simply creating a new PIN for the guest. Required APIs:

Create PIN: Programmatically generate a PIN matching the dashboard's capabilities . Required parameters include:

Property_ID & Room_ID .

PIN_Type: Specify either "Auto PIN" or "Custom PIN" .

Validity_Period: Must support both "Timed" (for guests, requiring specific start/end date-times) and "Permanent" configurations .

Read PINs: Fetch all active and scheduled PINs for a specific room to monitor capacity and group access .

Delete/Revoke PIN: Ability to immediately delete or disable a PIN (e.g., upon early checkout, cancellation, or when generating a new PIN for a late checkout).

5. Telemetry, Monitoring & Webhooks

Context: To prevent operational failures and track actual guest arrivals. Required APIs / Webhooks:

Access Logs: Endpoint to fetch (or webhook to receive) real-time unlock events. We need to know when a specific PIN was used to verify actual guest arrival.

Device Health / Battery Alert: Webhook or polling endpoint to get the current battery percentage or "Low Battery" flags for all locks, allowing us to auto-generate a maintenance ticket before a lock dies.



To the MyGate Integration Team: For each of the above requirements, kindly outline:

Base URL & Endpoint Path

Required Headers (Authentication format)

Mandatory Request Parameters (JSON payload)

Sample Success & Error Responses (JSON)

Any rate limits, polling limits, or constraints.

Sandbox Environment for testing these APIs.



PMS Findings

Vibe House PMS Evaluation: Core System Architecture

Objective: Evaluate the baseline Property Management System (PMS), eZee Absolute, against alternative hostel-native platforms (Aiosell, StayManager) to determine the optimal foundational architecture for the 40-key hybrid operations of Vibe House.

1. The Baseline: Where eZee Stands

eZee Absolute is a highly capable global property management system that natively supports bed-level inventory. However, its core pricing engine relies heavily on predefined occupancy slabs rather than autonomous, AI-driven market pricing.

The Operational Reality: eZee accurately tracks which guest is assigned to which bed (dormitory versus private room) and maintains a balanced financial ledger.

The Technical Gap: Because the standard eZee pricing module requires manual "occupancy slabs" to trigger rate changes, it does not automatically surge rates based on live competitor analysis or external market events. To achieve the objective of automated, dynamic revenue optimization, it would be necessary to build a custom Booking Engine/Middleware (or purchase external Revenue Management modules) that constantly calculates optimal prices and pushes those overrides to the eZee system.



2. Feature-by-Feature Comparison Matrix

Business Requirement

eZee Absolute (Baseline)

Aiosell (Revenue Focus)

StayManager (Ops Focus) 

Inventory Logic

Bed-Level Supported. Natively handles individual beds and room assignments.



Hybrid / Derived Rooms. Sells a dorm as individual beds or auto-blocks beds if the unit is sold as a Private Room.

PG / Hostel Native. Focused heavily on bed allocation, resident tracking, and vacancy management.

B2B Pricing Model

Simplified as they support both Beds and Rooms (assumption to be verified)

Simplified as they support both Beds and Rooms (assumption to be verified)

TBD - pure bed level pricing - or support rooms also

India KYC Support

No

Maybe?

Yes

Pricing Engine

Slab-Based Yielding. Automatically changes room rates based on pre-set occupancy percentage slabs.

AI-Driven (Dynamic). Automatically calculates and changes rates hundreds of times daily based on real-time market factors.

Rule-Based. Built for fixed pricing, scheduled rent collection, and standard recurring billing.

Dynamic Pricing not supported

Retail & Upsells

Folio Ledger. Can add financial charges to a guest's bill but requires external UI for guest self-service.

Integrated ERP. Built-in accounting and inventory tracking deducts physical stock upon sale.

Basic Billing. Optimal for recurring monthly bills and fines, but less focused on fast-paced retail POS.

Access Ops

Standard. Stores standard guest profile data. Requires a custom application to link with smart locks.

Standard. Stores standard guest profiles. Requires external integration for smart hardware.

India Ops Focus. Designed specifically for the Indian PG/Hostel market with native compliance features.



3. Deep Dive Findings & Verified Proof of Concept

Alternative A: Aiosell (The Revenue Automator)

Research Findings: Aiosell functions as an all-in-one cloud ERP encompassing a PMS, Revenue Management System (RMS), and Point of Sale (POS). It was designed specifically to automate dynamic pricing and streamline multi-unit inventory.

The Strategic Feature for Hybrid Hostels: Derived Rooms. This system resolves the hybrid hostel inventory dilemma.

Verified Proof (Derived Rooms): > "Derived Rooms Concept: A dorm can be sold as individual beds or as a private room... If any individual bed is sold, the entire dorm inventory should be closed. If the entire dorm is sold, then all individual beds should be blocked automatically."
Aiosell Hostel Management Software

Verified Proof (Dynamic Pricing): > "Aiosell’s dynamic pricing can adjust room rates hundreds of times daily, capitalizing instantly on market fluctuations and real-time demand shifts."
Aiosell Revenue Management System

Alternative B: StayManager (The Operations Enforcer)

Research Findings: StayManager is deeply localized for the Indian PG and student housing market. The platform is heavily focused on daily facility operations, resident compliance, and security.

The Strategic Feature for Hybrid Hostels: Automated Allocation & Compliance. It features native tools for bed assignments and localized onboarding.

Verified Proof (Smart Bed Allocation):
"StayManager speeds up student onboarding with digital KYC and Aadhaar verification built in... admins get instant compliance, faster check-ins, and secure data handling."
StayManager Hostel Admin App

StayManager Tenant App 



Baseline Proof: eZee Absolute

Verified Proof (Bed Management Supported): > "Dorms or private rooms: set up and sell any. Just as you keep options open for your guests to choose from individual beds a.k.a dormitories or private rooms, our hostel reservation system will let you handle your bookings in anyway you want to."
eZee Absolute Hostel Management

Verified Proof (Passive/Slab Pricing): > "Smart yield management. Based on the set formula, this online hotel management system automatically changes your room rates as per occupancy slab."
eZee Absolute Yield Management

https://www.ezeeabsolute.com/



4. Strategic Recommendations

Path 1: Retain eZee + Build Custom Middleware (Maximum Control)

Action: Utilize eZee strictly for bed inventory, yield management slabs, and financial ledgering. Allocate the engineering budget toward building a proprietary dynamic pricing engine that crawls competitor rates and pushes overrides to eZee.

Verdict: Provides 100% control over pricing algorithms and the guest experience, but requires significantly higher upfront software development and maintenance costs.

Path 2: Pivot to Aiosell (Speed to Revenue)

Action: Replace eZee with Aiosell to gain instant access to AI-driven dynamic pricing and the "Derived Rooms" logic natively. A lightweight Progressive Web App (PWA) would still be required for guest community features and digital lock integration.

Verdict: The most effective choice if maximizing RevPAB (Revenue Per Available Bed) and optimizing OTA yield management are the immediate business priorities.

Path 3: Pivot to StayManager (Operational Security)

Action: Adopt StayManager for its highly localized Indian compliance, payment collection, and access control capabilities.

Verdict: The optimal choice if the business model leans heavily toward longer-stay co-living, or if on-site operations and security compliance are the primary operational concerns. (Note: This path sacrifices automated, AI-driven surge pricing).